---
layout: default
permalink: /narratives/narrative1/
---
## Artifact Overview
The artifact chosen to showcase my development in software design and engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases all converge within my first project in CS 320: Software Test Automation (Q1 2024). The goal was to establish validation and automated testing for a client’s specification on an in-memory appointment service. To provide a more robust solution, I specialized the program to fit a consultation appointment service incorporating database to manage larger data sets and ensuring long-term storage.
## Justification – Software D&E
I selected this artifact to showcase critical software development skills such as improving design structure, extending scalability, and ensuring effective validation and testing. The artifact demonstrates my ability to identify and resolve design flaws beginning with tight coupling, violation of single responsibility principles, and lack of a formal and sufficient validation layer. Most notably, using separation of concerns, I’ve showcased the ability to create modular, maintainable code that adheres to single-purpose principles necessary for proper functionality and testing desirable within the software development life cycle. Specifically, the enhancements incorporate dedicated layers for business logic, validation, database interaction, and user authorization & authentication – bolstering isolated, modular mock unit testing for both specific and general concerns. 
## Skill Outcomes
In terms of directly attributed outcomes among software design and engineering, refactoring the artifact towards an expandable consultant appointment system with unit testing and continuous integration clearly shows **innovative tools and techniques to accomplish industry-specific goals**. Another direct outcome is the usefulness of a properly structured, modular codebase – **establishing technical and collaborative environments to support organizational decision-making** for both development teams and stockholder collaboration. Similarly, **professionally written documentation** through automated formatting tools aid developers in understanding code more easily and focus less on deciphering documentation.
## Reflection – Growth in Security and Management
In retrospect, I’ve grown keener on understanding how to implement robust security coverage through the refactoring of a small project into a more sophisticated one. Using Maven for dependency management in line with clear separation of concerns helped me recognize the usefulness of isolating layers of interaction and securing possible vulnerabilities without adding complexity to the program. I’ve also become more proficient in providing robust unit testing through Mockito, allowing for mock objects to be configured for quick and robust isolation of functionality and control over dependencies. Overall, I feel much more comfortable with my growth in understanding the software development lifecycle in practice due to this artifact’s growth. 

<a href="/https://herpa121.github.io">Back to Home</a>
