---
layout: default
---

## Artifact Overview
The artifact chosen to showcase my development in software design and engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases all converge within my first project in CS 320: Software Test Automation (Q1 2024). The goal was to establish validation and automated testing for a client’s specification on an in-memory appointment service. To provide a more robust solution, I specialized the program to fit a consultation appointment service incorporating database to manage larger data sets and ensuring long-term storage.
## Justification – Databases
I selected this artifact to showcase critical development in database skills through incorporating key security, efficiency, and data integrity principles that align with real world applications of a consultant appointment system. 
## Efficient Connectivity
To ensure proper resource and connection management, HikariCP (Hikari Connection Pool) provides a lightweight connection pool for efficient connection usage which can be easily reconfigured as the project expands while accommodating for more users within a time frame. Resources are also automatically closed when operations are aborted through try-with-resources encapsulation of SQL queries, providing a fail-safe solution. Lastly, SQL queries are specified to only collect relevant data, reducing database overhead. These techniques provide an implicit, adaptable foundation of robustness, reliability, and scalability.
## Security
When user and company information could possibly be exposed with the use of databases, I sought out to ameliorate possible vulnerabilities. Accessing database with MySQL through JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) allows for custom, robust security protocols in addition to built-in features like encryption at rest and in transit. Most notably, key security features implemented in the appointment service include user authentication with password hashing (SHA-256), role-based access control, and prepared statements to prevent SQL injection attacks with input sanitization. In addition, database errors are handled properly without exposing underlying information and diminishing possible lapses in intended functionality through automatic closing of resources. Lastly, utilizing the least privilege principle in practice, SQL queries are specified to only collect relevant data, limiting the exposure of sensitive information as opposed to filtering post-queries in addition to only allowing access to necessary functionality per user role. 
## Skill Outcomes
Through refactoring the project to accommodate a database instead of in-memory storage for increased reliability and data integrity shows the ability to **solve problems using computer science standards while managing trade-offs in design**. Similarly, understanding the nature of appointment systems and accurately addressing key concerns of functionality addresses the ability to **use well-rounded and innovative techniques in computing practices that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals**. Lastly, the security protocols exhibited across different layers of database integration shows **development of a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources**.
## Reflection
In retrospect, I’ve come to appreciate what aspects of database integration become important to focus on in terms of security. Through this project, I have yet to tackle comprehensive audit logging and associated security testing beyond integration testing. Despite this, my current implementation underscores a robust foundation that isn’t monolithic or inflexible while incorporating many security features. 
When I first set out to showcase my development in databases, I initially had a far too ambitious plan of incorporating a hybrid system of in-memory data synchronized with a database. However, I had to humble myself to realize that certain systems, like consultant appointments, benefit more from having a sole source of truth for enforced security and data integrity. This opened my eyes to recognizing the importance of simplicity in analyzing trade-offs between flexibility and reliability – especially when it comes to the security of application and user data. 

<a href="/">Back to Home</a>
